# Developer Journal 

## 2025-02-18 SAM
Set up initial folder structure and root endpoint for API that returns "Hello World". Used UV for environment management. First router is a "health" endpoint that returns http status "OK", used health router to set up models and routers folders, defining the health model and router respectively. Mostly smooth sailing so far. Watched Youtube tutorials for UV and FastAPI, both have been intuitive and well-documented.

## 2025-02-21 SAM
Built data output routers for mtcars dataset. {root}/api/dataset returns full mtcars dataset in json. {root}/api/{item_id} returns individual mtcars item, with the item_id as the model name with spaces removed. Static data currently held in src/data. src/services/mtcars.py ingests dataset and returns a dictionary with the full dataset. HTTP responses encoded into routers, with 404 Item Not Found for {item_id} outside of the mtcars set (using HondaAccord to test). Status 200 OK returns for "good" requests. Status 500 Internal Server Error seems to be automatic in FastAPI, will return if code is not working (trying to dump entire mtcars dataset as 'str' instead of as json encoded). PR of mtcars work did create a small merge conflict with main branch, but should be fairly easy to resolve. 
Set up initial folder structure and root endpoint for API that returns "Hello World". Used UV for environment management. First router is a "health" endpoint that returns http status "OK", used health router to set up models and routers folders, defining the health model and router respectively. Mostly smooth sailing so far. Watched Youtube tutorials for UV and FastAPI, both have been intuitive and well-documented.

## 2025-02-26 SAM 
Discovered issues when implementing unit and integration tests. Single instance of mtcars would pass the integration test, but was unable to get the full dataset to pass a similar test. Tried to resolve by making a new model as a list of mtcar instances, but this did not work. Eventually while trying to figure out what was going on, reworked the services function to validate each row in the csv against the mtcars model. It now creates a list of validated mtcars, which is stored as MTCARS_DATA. In order to pass validation for the full dataset, a new test was created which checks to make sure the full dataset is a list, then checks each individual item in the list against the mtcar model. Some updates to the router logic as well to handle the new data structures. 

## 2025-03-10 
Dockerized API this past week. Runs through Dockerfile and a docker-compose.yaml. Fairly simple setup, good documentation out there. One quirk is the networking. 5000 port was in use, had to change that on the local network size. IP and Port shown in the command line is not where the app is currently located locally (at localhost), but this is likely to not matter as we move the app onto Azure and modify the way logging is handled. Next steps are to move onto Azure and create API key authentification. 
